Now I like to write one more test
to check for an error page.
So in the event that I delete a student that doesn't exist,
I should be sent to the error page.
So let's go ahead and write the failing test first.
So this is for deleting a student with the HTTP request
for the error page.
Again, we're going to delete a student who doesn't exist.
I'll set up my mvcResult equals MockMvc.perform.
Small typo here. Make sure I use mockMvc with a lowercase m.
That's the field name.
Alrighty, excellent.
Okay, great, I'm back on track here.
mockMvc.perform, I use the MvcRequestBuilders.
I perform a get request.
And I'll send that get request over to /delete/student/,
the id is a path variable.
And the actual id that I'll use here,
I'll just give an id that I know that doesn't exist
which is zero.
Remember in our sample data, we have the id of one,
but we don't have the id of zero,
so this should give us an error.
And here I'll say Expect, status isOk,
and then I perform an andReturn.
So when I perform this, the view name should be error.
So let me go ahead and grab the ModelAndView
by making use of mvcResult.getModelAndView,
and then I can assert the view name,
and I'll assert the view name as being error.
Now, again, this is going to fail, right?
We're writing a failing test first,
but let's just go ahead and run the test.
Okay, excellent, so this given test failed, as expected,
and the view name is not equal to error but was index.
All right, so we need to kind of fix this.
So in our application code,
when we actually delete a student,
we need to make one small modification.
So before actually attempting to delete a student,
let's check to make sure that the student even exists
before we attempt to delete them.
In my code here, I make use of this if.
I'll say if !studentService.checkIfStudentIsNull, the id,
return error.
Basically, I'm saying, "Hey, if I couldn't find
the student in the database with that given id,
then I'm going to return error.
Now let's go ahead and run our test again.
And success, this test passes.
So we tried to delete a student that didn't exist,
and it gave us the actual error page,
so this is awesome, I like it.
And now we can kind of pull this altogether
by actually running our application
and taking a look at the user interface.
So let's go ahead and run our app real quick.
And once the app is up and running,
we'll go to localhost:1500,
and we'll go and just add a student.
So we've added Eric Roby, and let's go ahead and add Darby.
And now let's go ahead and delete one of the students.
Okay, great, so we've deleted Eric Roby,
so that's successful.
So we see the delete/student/1.
That's awesome, I love it.
All right, so this is really, really good.
We're making good progress here.
So we have code in place for deleting a student,
and we can demonstrate this in our user interface,
and we've also added features over time, right?
We added features to add new students
and also get a list of students.
So this app is starting to come together,
and we're adding new functionality,
and we're doing it in the test-driven process,
so I like this, I'm really happy.